What is Git?
Git is a widely used modern version control system for tracking changes in computer files. The term version control system suggests a system that records all the changes made to a file or set of data, so a specific version can be considered whenever needed. This feature makes the process of collaboration so feasible with all team members, making it considerably more comfortable to work over a big project.  

Git makes it possible for several people involved in the project to work together and track each other's progress over time. In software development, the tool helps in Source Code Management. Git favors not only programmers but also non-technical users by keeping track of their project files.

While working on Git, we actively use two repositories.  

Local repository: The local repository is present on our computer and consists of all the files and folders. This Repository is used to make changes locally, review history, and commit when offline.
Remote repository: The remote repository refers to the server repository that may be present anywhere. This repository is used by all the team members to exchange the changes made.

Git commands
git config - This command sets the author name and email address respectively to be used with your commits.
git init - This command is used to start a new repository.
git clone - This command is used to obtain a repository from an existing URL.
git add - This command adds a file to the staging area.
git commit - This command records or snapshots the file permanently in the version history.
git reset - This command unstages the file, but it preserves the file contents.
git status - This command lists all the files that have to be committed.
git rm - This command deletes the file from your working directory and stages the deletion.
git log - This command is used to list the version history for the current branch.
git remote - This command is used to connect your local repository to the remote server.
git push - This command sends the committed changes of master branch to your remote repository.
git pull - This command fetches and merges changes on the remote server to your working directory.

Branch in Git
Branch in Git is used to keep your changes until they are ready. You can do your work on a branch while the main branch (master) remains stable. After you are done with your work, you can merge it with the main office.
git branch - This command lists all the local branches in the current repository.
git merge - This command merges the specified branch’s history into the current branch.
SSH is a secure shell network protocol that is used for network management, remote file transfer, and remote system access.

SSH uses a pair of SSH keys to establish an authenticated and encrypted secure network protocol. It allows for secure remote communication on unsecured open networks.
SSH keys are used to initiate a secure "handshake". When generating a set of keys, you will generate a "public" and "private" key.
The "public" key is the one you share with the remote party. 
The "private" key is the one you keep for yourself in a secure place. 
SSH keys are generated through a security algorithm. It uses prime numbers, and large random numbers to make the public and private key.
It is created so that the public key can be derived from the private key, but not the other way around.
